* Genesis 3:1 to 6

* The Temptation and Fall of Man
3 Now the serpent was more cunning than any beast of the field which the Lord God had made. And he said to the woman, “Has God indeed said, ‘You shall not eat of every tree of the garden’?”

2 And the woman said to the serpent, “We may eat the fruit of the trees of the garden; 3 but of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden, God has said, ‘You shall not eat it, nor shall you touch it, lest you die.’ ”

4 Then the serpent said to the woman, “You will not surely die. 5 For God knows that in the day you eat of it your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil.”

6 So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, that it was [a]pleasant to the eyes, and a tree desirable to make one wise, she took of its fruit and ate. She also gave to her husband with her, and he ate.


* Some scholars thinks that the story of Adam and Eve is an allegory 
... The word "Allegory" is a story in which the people, things and events have a symbolic meaning.

According to a Allegory thinker: 
Adam represents the rational part of man and represents the sensual fleshly side of man.
And serpent represents the sensual fleshy side of man and the serpents represents the voice of enticement.

But The Only True interpretation od this story is a literal interpretation.
Adam and Eve are  presented as real people.

Genesis 2:7
And the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living being.
... In hebrew the name "Adam" means Human being or man.
... but if we rally dig into the word, It means red dirt or man made from dirt.

Genesis 2:21 to 22 => God created the very First women.
21 And the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall on Adam, and he slept; and He took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh in its place. 22 Then the rib which the Lord God had taken from man He [h]made into a woman, and He brought her to the man.
... In the simplest form Eve means life or life-giving.
.. but the full meaning of the  name Eve is mother of all life

Genesis 3:20
20 And Adam called his wife’s name Eve,[g] because she was the mother of all living.

Genesis 5:2
2 Male and female created he them; and blessed them, and called their name Adam, in the day when they were created.
... God called them both Adam because adam means human being.

** Adam's age => Genesis 5:5
And all the days that Adam lived were nine hundred and thirty years: and he died
