Genesis is a historical book and is regarded as literal history.
The geographical locations in connection with the story are historic.

The word "Genesis" means Origin or The Creation.

The Book of Genesis is divided into two sections:

	1. First section (chapters 1 to 11 ) => has God's patience been exhausted? Has god given up on the world?

The first section's focus is universal. It deals with the origin of the universe, the origin of mankind, the origin of sin, etc., and it tells how mankind came to be Alienated and separated from God and how sin perverted all of God's creation.

Genesis storypath:
Story of Adam and Eve, murder of Abel by his brother Cain
Story of Noah's Ark 
Story of the tower of Babel = different languages and nations

Genesis 12:3 
I will bless those who bless you, And I will curse him who curses you, And in shall all the families of the earth be blessed.

 the word "Families" derives from the Hebrew word 'Mishpakka', which means clans, tribes, and nation 

Exodus 19:3
3 Moses went up to the mountain of God. Then the LORD called to him from the mountain, saying: This is what you will say to the house of Jacob (nation of Israel); tell the Israelites: 4 You have seen how I treated the Egyptians and how I carried you up on eagles' wings and brought you to myself.
5 Now if you obey me fully and keep my covenant, then out of all nations you will be my own treasured from among all the people the Earth;  for all the earth  belongs to me, 6 you will be my kingdom of priests and a holy nation.’ These are the words you must give to the Israelites.



Four great events in the Book of Genesis :
	1. Creation
	2. Fall
	3. Noah's flood
	4. Tower of Babel 

Four great people in the Book of Genesis :
	1. Abraham
	2. Isaac
	3. Jacob
	4. Joseph.

God's plan from the beginning was to use one nation to reveal His plan of redemption to the rest of the world.
He revealed His plan of redemption to the Jews through what we refer to as the Old Testament.

Fulfilled the plan of redemption through Jesus Christ.

The Ultimate goal is to bring salvation to the entire world.

	• The Nine Basic Stages of the Old Testament :
	1. The creation stage: Genesis 1 to 11
	2. The patriarchal stage: Genesis 12 to 50
	3. The exodus stage
	4. The conquest stage
	5. The judges' stage
	6. The United Kingdom stage
	7. The divided kingdom stage
	8. The Babylonian captivity stage
	9. The return stage
The  
Only god has experience true eternity
	• Experienced Eternity: One which has no beginning and endings.
	• Isaiah (yasaiya): 57:15 NLT.
	15 For the high and honored One Who lives forever, Whose name is Holy, says, “I live in the high and holy place. And I also live with those who are sorry for their sins and have turned from them and are not proud. I give new strength to the spirit of those without pride, and also to those whose hearts are sorry for their sins.
	
	
	

The word " created " in the Book of Genesis 1:1 is translated from the Hebrew word "baw raw" which means "to create out of nothing
	
	• .Hebrews 11:3
	 By faith, we understand that the entire universe was formed at God’s command, and that what we now see did not come from anything that can be seen.
	
	
	
	• About the shape of the earth in the Bible in Isaiah 40:22
	God sits above the circle of the earth.
	    The people below seem like grasshoppers to him!
	He stretches out the heavens like a curtain
	    and makes his tent from them
	

	The word "circle" was translated from a Hebrew word {Khoog} which means spherical.
	
	• Job (Yakub) 26:7
	He spreads out the northern skies over empty space;
	    he suspends the earth over nothing.
	

	• About the rain:  Job 36:27 to 30
	
	27 “He draws up the drops of water,
	    which distill as rain to the streams[c];
	28 the clouds pour down their moisture
	    and abundant showers fall on mankind.
	29 Who can understand how he spreads out the clouds,
	    how he thunders from his pavilion?
	30 See how he scatters his lightning about him,
	    bathing the depths of the sea.
	

	
	• Creation of the world, Science vs Christianity

Exodus 20:11  
 For six days the 
Lord made the heavens, the earth, the sea, and all that is in them, but he rested on the seventh day. Therefore the 
Lord blessed the Sabbath day and made it holy.

The word "days" is translated from the Hebrew word { Yome } and it refers to a 24-hour period.


	
	• Adam was created somewhere around 4,000 to 10,000 B.C.

There seems to be a discrepancy between what science and God's Word say.

	• Young Earth According to the bible is somewhere between 6,000 years to 10,000 years old.

	• And It is possible to believe in an old earth and also believe in what the Word of God says?

Most conservative Christians who believe in an Old Earth believe in 1 of 2 theories:

	1• Genesis Big Bang Theory:
* Time and space
 In the beginning when the universe was small, it didn't take long for the universe to double in size, but the bigger our universe gets the longer it takes for it to double in size.
example balloon and a circle.
Which means each day of creation will have a different duration as we look back in time.


	2• Gap Theory: Many say that there is a gap between Genesis chapter 1 verses 1 and 2.
Verse 1 describes the original creation of the world which occurred billions of years ago.
Verse 2 describes the condition of the earth after destruction.

2 peter(Patrus) 2:4 =
4  God did not spare the angels who sinned, but cast them down to [b]hell and delivered them chained in the prison of darkness, to be reserved for judgment; 5 and did not spare the ancient world, but saved Noah, one of eight people, a preacher of righteousness, bringing in the flood on the world of the ungodly;

The History of Creation
1 In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. 2 The earth was without form, and void; and darkness [a]was on the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters.

* The word "was" translated from a Hebrew word {haw-yaw} which has two meaning 
	1. Was
	2. Become

* The word "without form" translated from a Hebrew word {to-hoo} which means barrenness




* Scientifically Earth is supposedly 16 billion years old.

The Bible looks forward to Time.
	• From the Bible perspective creation took 6 days.
But, science looks backward into time.

	• humans were created on the 6th day the Bible begins to look at time from the earth's perspective.
 because
The Bible is God's revelation to man.

	• Albert Einstein's Theory says that time expands at the same rate as the expansion of the universe.


* psalms 104:5 to 9 => Third Day.
You placed the world on its foundation so it would never be moved. You clothed the earth with floods of water, water that covered even the mountains. At your command, the water fled; at the sound of your thunder, it hurried away. Mountains rose and valleys sank to the levels you decreed. Then you set a firm boundary for the seas, so they would never again cover the earth.

* Genesis 1: 14 to 19
14 And God said, Let there be lights in the firmament of the heaven to divide the day from the night; and let them be for signs, and for seasons, and for days, and years:
...God is placing these lights in specific locations in space.

15 And let them be for lights in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth: and it was so.

16 And God made two great lights; the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night: he made the stars also.
... The word made was translated from a hebrew word {aw-saw} which means to create something out of pre-existing material.

17 And God set them in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth,
... The word "set" is translated from a Hebrew word {naw-than} to place in a specific position or location. 

18 And to rule over the day and over the night, and to divide the light from the darkness: and God saw that it was good.

19 And the evening and the morning were the fourth day.


* Did stars and sun existed before the earth's formation?

*Job 38:4 to 7
4 “Where were you when I laid the earth’s foundation?
    Tell me, if you understand.
5 Who marked off its dimensions? Surely you know!
    Who stretched a measuring line across it?
6 On what were its footings set,
    or who laid its cornerstone—
7 while the morning stars sang together
    and all the angels[a] shouted for joy?

* Here the word star is translated from a Hebrew word {ko-kawb} which means stars in the sky.
This tells us that the stars existed and they were singing when god laid the foundation of the earth.
The line "stars were singing", stars do actually produce sound or vibrations just like musical instruments depending on the frequency.
Does that mean god created Sun and the Stars on the first day.

 
* The Actual Meaning of the Fouth day is
God said let the lights be specifically placed in the firmanent of the heaven ( set in a fixed loction ), to divide the day from the night; and let them be for signs, and for seasons, anf for days and years.

* It's for the first time, he created something and didn't name it i.e Sun and star, rather than giving them names he called them greater light and lesser light 
It indicates that sun and stars are not to be worshipped in any way, in fact nothing in nature is to be worshipped . god was simply emphasising that they are not deities, they are inanimate object created by one true god. 



* Genesis 1:20 to 23
21 And God created great whales, and every living creature that moveth, which the waters brought forth abundantly, after their kind, and every winged fowl after his kind: and God saw that it was good.
... water animals were created by the god not made.
... but why cannot they be genarated by the earth beacause they are creatures and God created the creature 

22 And God blessed them, saying, Be fruitful, and multiply, and fill the waters in the seas, and let fowl multiply in the earth.

23 And the evening and the morning were the fifth day.



... Only humans and animals have Nephesh (Breath) and Nephesh has to be created by God itself.
thats why we say God created every living nephesh.



* Genesis 1:24 to 31
24 And God said, Let the earth bring forth the living creature after his kind, cattle, and creeping thing, and beast of the earth after his kind: and it was so.
... The word "Cattle" is translated from a Hebrew word {be-Hay-maw} which refers to large, any four footed, domesticated animals.
... The word "Creeping things" is transalated from a Hebrew word {reh-mes} which refers to small animals.
... The word "beast" is translated from hebrew word {khah-ee} which refers to large animals like elephants etc.

25 And God made the beast of the earth after his kind, and cattle after their kind, and every thing that creepeth upon the earth after his kind: and God saw that it was good.

26 And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness: and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth.
... God gave us body to emulate him.
... The important part is Man has a consciousness and a free will and the ability to reason what separates man from animals.
... we are the image of God

27 So God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him; male and female created he them.

28 And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it: and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth.

29 And God said, Behold, I have given you every herb bearing seed, which is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree, in the which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed; to you it shall be for meat.

30 And to every beast of the earth, and to every fowl of the air, and to every thing that creepeth upon the earth, wherein there is life, I have given every green herb for meat: and it was so.

31 And God saw every thing that he had made, and, behold, it was very good. And the evening and the morning were the sixth day.



* Psalms 8:4 to 5
what are people that you should think about them,
    human beings that you should care for them?[c]
5 Yet you made them only a little lower than God[d]
    and crowned them[e] with glory and honor.

... Earth's resources must be use for our advantage but not for the earth's advantage
